_devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM12.1.md, before:

---
layout: rom
title: CyanogenMod 12.1 (Android 5.1.1)
subtitle: for Chuwi Vi10 Plus, Hi10 Plus, Hi10 Pro, Hibook, Hibook Pro & Hi12
date: 2017-01-28
tags: [chuwi_vi10plus, CyanogenMod, CM12.1]
social-share: true
comments: true
---

Here's an early taste of Lollipop for Chuwi Vi10 Plus & Hi10 Plus. Chuwi Hi10 Pro, Hibook, Hibook Pro & Hi12 are supported with compatibility patch (see installation instructions below). It is unofficial and unsupported by the CyanogenMod team. It's for **advanced users** only.

![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM12.1/Screenshot_2016-10-14-13-28-29.png)  
![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM12.1/Screenshot_2016-10-14-13-29-01.png)

<span style="color:#FF0000;">Do not mirror my builds!</span> Please post a link to this page instead.

**cm-12.1-20170128-UNOFFICIAL-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133420](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133420)  
md5:1a83b0d3ba5c870bc6f7132e16542f26

**Google apps:**  
[The Open Gapps Project](http://opengapps.org/?arch=x86&api=5.1&variant=pico)

**Working:**

- Wifi
- Audio (playback/input/routing/headphones/etc)
- Bluetooth
- Camera
- Hardware video decoding & encoding
- Hardware acceleration and OpenGL rendering
- HDMI
- Houdini
- Keyboard dock
- Network/wifi location
- SD cards
- Stylus pen (HiPen H2)
- USB storage (MTP and PTP) & adb
- USB OTG (storage, mouse, keyboard)
- USB-tethering
- Wifi-tethering
- Touchscreen/multi-touch
- Sensors

**Not working:**

- ???

**Issues:**

- Audio not routed through HDMI

**Sources:**

- [CM-CHT](https://github.com/CM-CHT)
- [Kernel](https://github.com/CM-CHT/android_kernel_intel_cherrytrail/tree/cm-12.1)

**Thanks:**

- CyanogenMod team & everyone who's been working on CM12.1

----

**How to install:**

1. boot into [TWRP recovery](/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/TWRP)
2. backup -> backup (create a nandroid backup of your current ROM)
3. wipe -> advanced wipe -> wipe /system
4. wipe -> factory reset
5. install cm-12.1-xxxxxxxx-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip
6. (install Hi10 Pro/Hibook/Hibook Pro/Hi12 patch if necessary - see FAQ below)
7. install open_gapps-x86-5.1-pico-xxxxxxxx.zip
8. reboot system

**FAQ:**

Q: I can't find developer options and performance settings, why?  
*A: Settings -> About tablet -> Click 'Build number' several times*

Q: I don't have reboot options in power menu, why?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Advanced reboot*

Q: I have no root, why? What is that hashtag on my status bar?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Root access. Root management is now integrated as part of CM's Privacy Guard and you can manage per app permissions under Settings -> Privacy -> Privacy Guard. You'll have a persistent notification in the status bar when you're running an app that uses root permissions.*

Q: I have Hi10 Plus. What should I do?  
*A: Older Hi10 Plus devices don't need any compatibility patch. If your device was shipped with 20170220 firmware download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Plus-20170220.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298962060](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298962060)  
md5:f57a5aa56c7c2826377233f0216a3b37

Q: I have Hi10 Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Pro.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133182](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133182)  
md5:228ef4c3530139c2ac895b0cc00cea9a

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Pro-HQ64.zip** (latest batch - serial no HQ64)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298927121](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298927121)  
md5:848bb05fd43cc68a3054226d5a1b45a8

Q: I have Hibook. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hibook.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298930089](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298930089)  
md5:638c1a761b7d7ad8658e7ada3a98bf9c

Q: I have Hibook Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-HibookPro.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133181](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133181)  
md5:5f65fa5b77a4798f5bf144fa1b6e035e

Q: I have Hi12. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi12.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862699134](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862699134)  
md5:c023c47f3aff08f416aed7f00dd35934

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi12-451609XXX.zip** (latest batch - serial no 451609XXX)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120704084](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120704084)  
md5:4865ba8f180c1a88684bdcd84a396a84

----

[Merged commits](https://review.lineageos.org/#/q/status:merged++branch:cm-12.1+-project:%255E.*device.*+-project:%255E.*kernel.*,n,z) not mentioned in the changelog.

**28.1. 2017 changelog:**

- fix lights HAL to allow lower minimum brightness
- fix capasitive home button on Hi12
- integrated kernel build
- fix Skype login issue (thanks to zltnngy)
- fix audio lag in some games (thanks to zltnngy)

**4.12. changelog:**

- build kernel & modules from source
- completely new kernel bring up cleaning up all kinds of Chuwi cruft
- update kernel mmc drivers to fix 'freezing issue'
- add configs for external keyboard docks to fix 'keyboard dock wake issue' (thanks to festlv)
- add BFQ i/o scheduler and enable it by default
- patch shtload of known vulnerabilities in kernel (CVE-xxxx-xxxx, and more)
- Android security patch level: 1 November 2016 (merged)

**28.10. changelog:**

- change device codename to chuwi_vi10plus
- SELinux enforcing
- fix Play Store compatibility with some apps (location permissions)
- build wifi (wpa_supplicant/hostapd) from source
- stylus pen "works"

**14.10. changelog:**

- initial release

----

**Previous builds:**

- [AndroidFileHost](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?w=files&flid=122578)

**Previous discussion:**

- [MoDaCo](http://www.modaco.com/forums/topic/377890-cyanogenmod-121/)

----

Commit message:

chuwi_vi10plus: Cube iWork1x

_devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM12.1.md, after:

---
layout: rom
title: CyanogenMod 12.1 (Android 5.1.1)
subtitle: for Chuwi Vi10 Plus, Hi10 Plus, Hi10 Pro, Hibook, Hibook Pro & Hi12
date: 2017-01-28
tags: [chuwi_vi10plus, CyanogenMod, CM12.1]
social-share: true
comments: true
---

Here's an early taste of Lollipop for Chuwi Vi10 Plus & Hi10 Plus. Chuwi Hi10 Pro, Hibook, Hibook Pro, Hi12 & Cube iWork1x are supported with compatibility patch (see installation instructions below). It is unofficial and unsupported by the CyanogenMod team. It's for **advanced users** only.

![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM12.1/Screenshot_2016-10-14-13-28-29.png)  
![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM12.1/Screenshot_2016-10-14-13-29-01.png)

<span style="color:#FF0000;">Do not mirror my builds!</span> Please post a link to this page instead.

**cm-12.1-20170128-UNOFFICIAL-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133420](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133420)  
md5:1a83b0d3ba5c870bc6f7132e16542f26

**Google apps:**  
[The Open Gapps Project](http://opengapps.org/?arch=x86&api=5.1&variant=pico)

**Working:**

- Wifi
- Audio (playback/input/routing/headphones/etc)
- Bluetooth
- Camera
- Hardware video decoding & encoding
- Hardware acceleration and OpenGL rendering
- HDMI
- Houdini
- Keyboard dock
- Network/wifi location
- SD cards
- Stylus pen (HiPen H2)
- USB storage (MTP and PTP) & adb
- USB OTG (storage, mouse, keyboard)
- USB-tethering
- Wifi-tethering
- Touchscreen/multi-touch
- Sensors

**Not working:**

- ???

**Issues:**

- Audio not routed through HDMI

**Sources:**

- [CM-CHT](https://github.com/CM-CHT)
- [Kernel](https://github.com/CM-CHT/android_kernel_intel_cherrytrail/tree/cm-12.1)

**Thanks:**

- CyanogenMod team & everyone who's been working on CM12.1

----

**How to install:**

1. boot into [TWRP recovery](/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/TWRP)
2. backup -> backup (create a nandroid backup of your current ROM)
3. wipe -> advanced wipe -> wipe /system
4. wipe -> factory reset
5. install cm-12.1-xxxxxxxx-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip
6. (install Hi10 Pro/Hibook/Hibook Pro/Hi12 patch if necessary - see FAQ below)
7. install open_gapps-x86-5.1-pico-xxxxxxxx.zip
8. reboot system

**FAQ:**

Q: I can't find developer options and performance settings, why?  
*A: Settings -> About tablet -> Click 'Build number' several times*

Q: I don't have reboot options in power menu, why?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Advanced reboot*

Q: I have no root, why? What is that hashtag on my status bar?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Root access. Root management is now integrated as part of CM's Privacy Guard and you can manage per app permissions under Settings -> Privacy -> Privacy Guard. You'll have a persistent notification in the status bar when you're running an app that uses root permissions.*

Q: I have Hi10 Plus. What should I do?  
*A: Older Hi10 Plus devices don't need any compatibility patch. If your device was shipped with 20170220 firmware download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Plus-20170220.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298962060](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298962060)  
md5:f57a5aa56c7c2826377233f0216a3b37

Q: I have Hi10 Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Pro.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133182](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133182)  
md5:228ef4c3530139c2ac895b0cc00cea9a

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Pro-HQ64.zip** (latest batch - serial no HQ64)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298927121](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298927121)  
md5:848bb05fd43cc68a3054226d5a1b45a8

Q: I have Hibook. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hibook.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298930089](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=673368273298930089)  
md5:638c1a761b7d7ad8658e7ada3a98bf9c

Q: I have Hibook Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-HibookPro.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133181](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767133181)  
md5:5f65fa5b77a4798f5bf144fa1b6e035e

Q: I have Hi12. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi12.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862699134](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862699134)  
md5:c023c47f3aff08f416aed7f00dd35934

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi12-451609XXX.zip** (latest batch - serial no 451609XXX)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120704084](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120704084)  
md5:4865ba8f180c1a88684bdcd84a396a84

Q: I have Cube iWork1x. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-12.1-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-iWork1x.zip** (Cube iWork1x)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120731411](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120731411)  
md5:fc60753b3af70dbbbaca4041b6ae3a00

----

[Merged commits](https://review.lineageos.org/#/q/status:merged++branch:cm-12.1+-project:%255E.*device.*+-project:%255E.*kernel.*,n,z) not mentioned in the changelog.

**28.1. 2017 changelog:**

- fix lights HAL to allow lower minimum brightness
- fix capasitive home button on Hi12
- integrated kernel build
- fix Skype login issue (thanks to zltnngy)
- fix audio lag in some games (thanks to zltnngy)

**4.12. changelog:**

- build kernel & modules from source
- completely new kernel bring up cleaning up all kinds of Chuwi cruft
- update kernel mmc drivers to fix 'freezing issue'
- add configs for external keyboard docks to fix 'keyboard dock wake issue' (thanks to festlv)
- add BFQ i/o scheduler and enable it by default
- patch shtload of known vulnerabilities in kernel (CVE-xxxx-xxxx, and more)
- Android security patch level: 1 November 2016 (merged)

**28.10. changelog:**

- change device codename to chuwi_vi10plus
- SELinux enforcing
- fix Play Store compatibility with some apps (location permissions)
- build wifi (wpa_supplicant/hostapd) from source
- stylus pen "works"

**14.10. changelog:**

- initial release

----

**Previous builds:**

- [AndroidFileHost](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?w=files&flid=122578)

**Previous discussion:**

- [MoDaCo](http://www.modaco.com/forums/topic/377890-cyanogenmod-121/)

----
