_devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM13.md, before:

---
layout: rom
title: LineageOS 13 (Android 6.0.1)
subtitle: for Chuwi Vi10 Plus, Hi10 Plus, Hi10 Pro, Hibook, Hibook Pro & Hi12
date: 2017-01-28
tags: [chuwi_vi10plus, CyanogenMod, CM13, LineageOS]
social-share: true
comments: true
---

Here's an early taste of Marshmallow for Chuwi Vi10 Plus, Hi10 Plus, Hi10 Pro & Hibook. Hibook Pro and Hi12 are no longer supported due to lack of kernel source. It is unofficial and unsupported by the CyanogenMod/LineageOS team. It's for **advanced users** only.

![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-121559.png)  
![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-121620.png)

<span style="color:#FF0000;">Do not mirror my builds!</span> Please post a link to this page instead.

**lineage-13.0-20170128-UNOFFICIAL-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634742061](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634742061)  
md5:232dfbdc42a437556e4473cb7ef3273c

**Google apps:**  
[The Open Gapps Project](http://opengapps.org/?arch=x86&api=6.0&variant=pico)

**Working:**

- Audio (playback/input/routing/headphones/etc)
- Bluetooth
- Camera
- Hardware acceleration and OpenGL rendering
- Hardware video decoding & encoding
- HDMI
- Houdini
- Keyboard dock
- Network/wifi location
- SD cards
- Sensors
- Stylus pen (HiPen H2)
- Touchscreen/multi-touch
- USB OTG (storage, mouse, keyboard)
- USB storage (MTP and PTP) & adb
- USB-tethering
- Wifi
- Wifi-tethering

**Not working:**

- ???

**Issues:**

- Slow to wake up from deep sleep
- SELinux is disabled
- Distortion in photos (issue with mismatching Lollipop camera drivers & Marshmallow display drivers)
- Audio not routed through HDMI

**Sources:**

- [CM-CHT](https://github.com/CM-CHT)
- [Kernel](https://github.com/CM-CHT/android_kernel_intel_cherrytrail/tree/cm-13.0)

**Thanks:**

- CyanogenMod/LineageOS team & everyone who's been working on CM13

----

**How to install:**

1. boot into [TWRP recovery](/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/TWRP)
2. backup -> backup (create a nandroid backup of your current ROM)
3. wipe -> advanced wipe -> wipe /system
4. wipe -> factory reset
5. install lineage-13.0-xxxxxxxx-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip
6. (install Hi10 Pro/Hibook/Hibook Pro/Hi12 patch if necessary - see FAQ below)
7. install open_gapps-x86-6.0-pico-xxxxxxxx.zip
8. reboot system

**FAQ:**

Q: I can't find developer options and performance settings, why?  
*A: Settings -> About tablet -> Click 'Build number' several times*

Q: I don't have reboot options in power menu, why?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Advanced reboot*

Q: I have no root, why? What is that hashtag on my status bar?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Root access. Root management is now integrated as part of CM's Privacy Guard and you can manage per app permissions under Settings -> Privacy -> Privacy Guard. You'll have a persistent notification in the status bar when you're running an app that uses root permissions.*

Q: I have Hi10 Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP. Hi10 Pro (z8350 - serial no HQ64) is not supported because of hardware changes and lack of kernel source code.*

**lineage-13.0-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Pro.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862698912](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862698912)  
md5:083dae440a8270f90bda608ee46a4b71

Q: I have Hibook. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP. (thanks to zltnngy for Hibook kernel bring up)*

**lineage-13.0-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hibook.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634745112](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634745112)  
md5:c9eb98e359063f38ed494923fb6277b7

Q: I have Hibook Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Hibook Pro is no longer supported after 20161108 build. There's no kernel source available for Hibook Pro.*

Q: I have Hi12. What should I do?  
*A: Hi12 is no longer supported after 20161108 build. There's no kernel source available for Hi12.*

----

[Merged commits](https://review.lineageos.org/#/q/status:merged++branch:cm-13.0+-project:%255E.*device.*+-project:%255E.*kernel.*,n,z) not mentioned in the changelog.

**28.1. 2017 changelog:**

- rebrand to LineageOS
- fix bluetooth audio
- fix lights HAL to allow lower minimum brightness
- integrated kernel build
- Android security patch level: 1 December 2016 (merged)

**9.12. changelog:**

- build kernel & modules from source
- completely new kernel bring up based on Intel Marshmallow reference (3.14.64) cleaning up all kinds of Chuwi cruft
- update to Linux 3.14.79
- update kernel mmc drivers to fix 'freezing issue'
- add configs for external keyboard docks to fix 'keyboard dock wake issue' (thanks to festlv)
- fix deep sleep with the new Marshmallow kernel
- add BFQ i/o scheduler and enable it by default
- patch shtload of known vulnerabilities in kernel (CVE-xxxx-xxxx, and more)
- Android security patch level: 5 November 2016 (merged)

**8.11. changelog:**

- initial release

----

**Previous builds:**

- [AndroidFileHost](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?w=files&flid=127123)

**Previous discussion:**

- [MoDaCo](http://www.modaco.com/forums/topic/378038-cyanogenmod-13/)

----

Commit message:

chuwi_vi10plus: add note about compatibility patch
* I wonder if noobs even bother to read further than
  the first sentence...

_devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM13.md, after:

---
layout: rom
title: LineageOS 13 (Android 6.0.1)
subtitle: for Chuwi Vi10 Plus, Hi10 Plus, Hi10 Pro, Hibook, Hibook Pro & Hi12
date: 2017-01-28
tags: [chuwi_vi10plus, CyanogenMod, CM13, LineageOS]
social-share: true
comments: true
---

Here's an early taste of Marshmallow for Chuwi Vi10 Plus & Hi10 Plus. Chuwi Hi10 Pro & Hibook are supported with compatibility patch (see installation instructions below). Hibook Pro and Hi12 are no longer supported due to lack of kernel source. It is unofficial and unsupported by the CyanogenMod/LineageOS team. It's for **advanced users** only.

![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-121559.png)  
![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-121620.png)

<span style="color:#FF0000;">Do not mirror my builds!</span> Please post a link to this page instead.

**lineage-13.0-20170128-UNOFFICIAL-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634742061](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634742061)  
md5:232dfbdc42a437556e4473cb7ef3273c

**Google apps:**  
[The Open Gapps Project](http://opengapps.org/?arch=x86&api=6.0&variant=pico)

**Working:**

- Audio (playback/input/routing/headphones/etc)
- Bluetooth
- Camera
- Hardware acceleration and OpenGL rendering
- Hardware video decoding & encoding
- HDMI
- Houdini
- Keyboard dock
- Network/wifi location
- SD cards
- Sensors
- Stylus pen (HiPen H2)
- Touchscreen/multi-touch
- USB OTG (storage, mouse, keyboard)
- USB storage (MTP and PTP) & adb
- USB-tethering
- Wifi
- Wifi-tethering

**Not working:**

- ???

**Issues:**

- Slow to wake up from deep sleep
- SELinux is disabled
- Distortion in photos (issue with mismatching Lollipop camera drivers & Marshmallow display drivers)
- Audio not routed through HDMI

**Sources:**

- [CM-CHT](https://github.com/CM-CHT)
- [Kernel](https://github.com/CM-CHT/android_kernel_intel_cherrytrail/tree/cm-13.0)

**Thanks:**

- CyanogenMod/LineageOS team & everyone who's been working on CM13

----

**How to install:**

1. boot into [TWRP recovery](/devices/chuwi_vi10plus/TWRP)
2. backup -> backup (create a nandroid backup of your current ROM)
3. wipe -> advanced wipe -> wipe /system
4. wipe -> factory reset
5. install lineage-13.0-xxxxxxxx-KonstaKANG-chuwi_vi10plus.zip
6. (install Hi10 Pro/Hibook/Hibook Pro/Hi12 patch if necessary - see FAQ below)
7. install open_gapps-x86-6.0-pico-xxxxxxxx.zip
8. reboot system

**FAQ:**

Q: I can't find developer options and performance settings, why?  
*A: Settings -> About tablet -> Click 'Build number' several times*

Q: I don't have reboot options in power menu, why?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Advanced reboot*

Q: I have no root, why? What is that hashtag on my status bar?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Root access. Root management is now integrated as part of CM's Privacy Guard and you can manage per app permissions under Settings -> Privacy -> Privacy Guard. You'll have a persistent notification in the status bar when you're running an app that uses root permissions.*

Q: I have Hi10 Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP. Hi10 Pro (z8350 - serial no HQ64) is not supported because of hardware changes and lack of kernel source code.*

**lineage-13.0-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hi10Pro.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862698912](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862698912)  
md5:083dae440a8270f90bda608ee46a4b71

Q: I have Hibook. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP. (thanks to zltnngy for Hibook kernel bring up)*

**lineage-13.0-20170128-chuwi_vi10plus-Hibook.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634745112](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=817550096634745112)  
md5:c9eb98e359063f38ed494923fb6277b7

Q: I have Hibook Pro. What should I do?  
*A: Hibook Pro is no longer supported after 20161108 build. There's no kernel source available for Hibook Pro.*

Q: I have Hi12. What should I do?  
*A: Hi12 is no longer supported after 20161108 build. There's no kernel source available for Hi12.*

----

[Merged commits](https://review.lineageos.org/#/q/status:merged++branch:cm-13.0+-project:%255E.*device.*+-project:%255E.*kernel.*,n,z) not mentioned in the changelog.

**28.1. 2017 changelog:**

- rebrand to LineageOS
- fix bluetooth audio
- fix lights HAL to allow lower minimum brightness
- integrated kernel build
- Android security patch level: 1 December 2016 (merged)

**9.12. changelog:**

- build kernel & modules from source
- completely new kernel bring up based on Intel Marshmallow reference (3.14.64) cleaning up all kinds of Chuwi cruft
- update to Linux 3.14.79
- update kernel mmc drivers to fix 'freezing issue'
- add configs for external keyboard docks to fix 'keyboard dock wake issue' (thanks to festlv)
- fix deep sleep with the new Marshmallow kernel
- add BFQ i/o scheduler and enable it by default
- patch shtload of known vulnerabilities in kernel (CVE-xxxx-xxxx, and more)
- Android security patch level: 5 November 2016 (merged)

**8.11. changelog:**

- initial release

----

**Previous builds:**

- [AndroidFileHost](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?w=files&flid=127123)

**Previous discussion:**

- [MoDaCo](http://www.modaco.com/forums/topic/378038-cyanogenmod-13/)

----
