_devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/CM13.md, before:

---
layout: rom
title: CyanogenMod 13 (Android 6.0.1)
subtitle: for Cube iWork8 Ultimate & iWork8 Air
date: 2016-11-08
tags: [cube_iwork8ultimate, CyanogenMod, CM13]
social-share: true
comments: true
---

Here's an early taste of Marshmallow for Cube iWork8 Ultimate (I1-T/I1-TD/I1-TWB/I1-TC) and iWork8 Air (I1-TF). It is unofficial and unsupported by the CyanogenMod team. It's for **advanced users** only. This is an early alpha build and it's not recommended for daily use (see issues below).

![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-135314.png)  
![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-135332.png)

<span style="color:#ff0000;">Do not mirror my builds!</span> Please post a link to this page instead.

**cm-13.0-20161108-UNOFFICIAL-KonstaKANG-cube_iwork8ultimate.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678585](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678585)  
md5:341926af3f010276a3ef482df32bd7c3

**Google apps:**  
[The Open Gapps Project](http://opengapps.org/?arch=x86&api=6.0&variant=pico)

**Working:**

- Audio (playback/input/routing/headphones/etc)
- Bluetooth
- Camera
- Hardware acceleration and OpenGL rendering
- Hardware video decoding & encoding
- HDMI
- Houdini
- Network/wifi location
- SD cards
- Sensors
- Touchscreen/multi-touch
- USB OTG (storage, mouse, keyboard)
- USB storage (MTP and PTP) & adb
- USB-tethering
- Wifi
- Wifi-tethering

**Not working:**

- ???

**Issues:**

- Device doesn't enter deep sleep mode - expect increased battery drain!
- SELinux is disabled (needs kernel update which is not possible without kernel source)
- No app battery usage stats under 'Settings -> Battery' (needs kernel update which is not possible without kernel source)
- Audio not routed through HDMI
- and more...

**Sources:**

- [CM-CHT](https://github.com/CM-CHT)
- Kernel (stock kernel - Cube hasn't released kernel source for this device and they are currently violating GPLv2)

**Thanks:**

- CyanogenMod team & everyone who's been working on CM13

----

**How to install:**

1. boot into [TWRP recovery](/devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/TWRP)
2. backup -> backup (create a nandroid backup of your current ROM)
3. wipe -> advanced wipe -> wipe /system
4. wipe -> factory reset
5. install cm-13.0-xxxxxxxx-KonstaKANG-cube_iwork8ultimate.zip
6. (install I1-TD/I1-TWB/I1-TC/I1-TF patch if necessary - see FAQ below)
7. install open_gapps-x86-6.0-pico-xxxxxxxx.zip
8. reboot system

**FAQ:**

Q: I can't find developer options and performance settings, why?  
*A: Settings -> About tablet -> Click 'Build number' several times*

Q: I don't have reboot options in power menu, why?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Advanced reboot*

Q: I have no root, why? What is that hashtag on my status bar?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Root access. Root management is now integrated as part of CM's Privacy Guard and you can manage per app permissions under Settings -> Privacy -> Privacy Guard. You'll have a persistent notification in the status bar when you're running an app that uses root permissions.*

Q: I have I1-TD/I1-TWB/I1-TC model with different touchscreen hardware. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below suitable for your device and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TD.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678595](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678595)  
md5:f178abd8dbd95edfd81f8fd34af1ea1a

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TWB.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678596](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678596)  
md5:6e02b692550cb91e22b4f2dedc431ac7

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TC.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=385035244224395551](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=385035244224395551)  
md5:1ffb019a781da3c4245e6c56a9840fa7

Q: I have iWork8 Air (I1-TF) with different display hardware. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TF.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767112675](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767112675)  
md5:21e1acc4ed28a0a5feab97c21c1416c9

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TF-20161108.zip** (latest batch)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120698941](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120698941)  
md5:600839cfe573fd0692057ab5452ba087

----

[Merged commits](https://review.cyanogenmod.org/#/q/status:merged++branch:cm-13.0+-project:%255E.*device.*+-project:%255E.*kernel.*,n,z) not mentioned in the changelog.

**8.11. changelog:**

- initial release

----

**Previous discussion:**

- [MoDaCo](http://www.modaco.com/forums/topic/378037-cyanogenmod-13/)

----

Commit message:

cube_iwork8ultimate: add support for I1-TFB

_devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/CM13.md, after:

---
layout: rom
title: CyanogenMod 13 (Android 6.0.1)
subtitle: for Cube iWork8 Ultimate & iWork8 Air
date: 2016-11-08
tags: [cube_iwork8ultimate, CyanogenMod, CM13]
social-share: true
comments: true
---

Here's an early taste of Marshmallow for Cube iWork8 Ultimate (I1-T/I1-TD/I1-TWB/I1-TC) and iWork8 Air (I1-TF/I1-TFB). It is unofficial and unsupported by the CyanogenMod team. It's for **advanced users** only. This is an early alpha build and it's not recommended for daily use (see issues below).

![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-135314.png)  
![screenshot]({{ site.url }}/devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/CM13/Screenshot_20161108-135332.png)

<span style="color:#ff0000;">Do not mirror my builds!</span> Please post a link to this page instead.

**cm-13.0-20161108-UNOFFICIAL-KonstaKANG-cube_iwork8ultimate.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678585](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678585)  
md5:341926af3f010276a3ef482df32bd7c3

**Google apps:**  
[The Open Gapps Project](http://opengapps.org/?arch=x86&api=6.0&variant=pico)

**Working:**

- Audio (playback/input/routing/headphones/etc)
- Bluetooth
- Camera
- Hardware acceleration and OpenGL rendering
- Hardware video decoding & encoding
- HDMI
- Houdini
- Network/wifi location
- SD cards
- Sensors
- Touchscreen/multi-touch
- USB OTG (storage, mouse, keyboard)
- USB storage (MTP and PTP) & adb
- USB-tethering
- Wifi
- Wifi-tethering

**Not working:**

- ???

**Issues:**

- Device doesn't enter deep sleep mode - expect increased battery drain!
- SELinux is disabled (needs kernel update which is not possible without kernel source)
- No app battery usage stats under 'Settings -> Battery' (needs kernel update which is not possible without kernel source)
- Audio not routed through HDMI
- and more...

**Sources:**

- [CM-CHT](https://github.com/CM-CHT)
- Kernel (stock kernel - Cube hasn't released kernel source for this device and they are currently violating GPLv2)

**Thanks:**

- CyanogenMod team & everyone who's been working on CM13

----

**How to install:**

1. boot into [TWRP recovery](/devices/cube_iwork8ultimate/TWRP)
2. backup -> backup (create a nandroid backup of your current ROM)
3. wipe -> advanced wipe -> wipe /system
4. wipe -> factory reset
5. install cm-13.0-xxxxxxxx-KonstaKANG-cube_iwork8ultimate.zip
6. (install I1-TD/I1-TWB/I1-TC/I1-TF patch if necessary - see FAQ below)
7. install open_gapps-x86-6.0-pico-xxxxxxxx.zip
8. reboot system

**FAQ:**

Q: I can't find developer options and performance settings, why?  
*A: Settings -> About tablet -> Click 'Build number' several times*

Q: I don't have reboot options in power menu, why?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Advanced reboot*

Q: I have no root, why? What is that hashtag on my status bar?  
*A: Settings -> Developer options -> Root access. Root management is now integrated as part of CM's Privacy Guard and you can manage per app permissions under Settings -> Privacy -> Privacy Guard. You'll have a persistent notification in the status bar when you're running an app that uses root permissions.*

Q: I have iWork8 Ultimate I1-TD/I1-TWB/I1-TC with different touchscreen hardware. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below suitable for your device and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TD.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678595](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678595)  
md5:f178abd8dbd95edfd81f8fd34af1ea1a

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TWB.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678596](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=529152257862678596)  
md5:6e02b692550cb91e22b4f2dedc431ac7

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TC.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=385035244224395551](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=385035244224395551)  
md5:1ffb019a781da3c4245e6c56a9840fa7

Q: I have iWork8 Air I1-TF/I1-TFB with different display hardware. What should I do?  
*A: Download patch below suitable for your device and install it in TWRP.*

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TF.zip**  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767112675](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767112675)  
md5:21e1acc4ed28a0a5feab97c21c1416c9

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TF-20161108.zip** (latest batch)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120698941](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=745425885120698941)  
md5:600839cfe573fd0692057ab5452ba087

**cm-13.0-20161108-cube_iwork8ultimate-I1-TFB.zip** (z8350)  
[https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767134381](https://www.androidfilehost.com/?fid=457095661767134381)  
md5:3171cd66df25218e44aeffc970f13c07

----

[Merged commits](https://review.cyanogenmod.org/#/q/status:merged++branch:cm-13.0+-project:%255E.*device.*+-project:%255E.*kernel.*,n,z) not mentioned in the changelog.

**8.11. changelog:**

- initial release

----

**Previous discussion:**

- [MoDaCo](http://www.modaco.com/forums/topic/378037-cyanogenmod-13/)

----
